Let's talk about what happens in the event
that maybe you do hire a contractor.
And you find out that some
of this stuff has been done.
So what you'll end up with
is in Google Search Console,
you'll see very visible alerts.
That you have basically bad links.
And what these often look like
they're like rings of sights that just
contain pages full of keywords.
And cloned copies of blog posts, and
in the comment section of sites they'll
just be like links to various places.
And it basically is a tangled web of
an attempt to gain the SEO system.
It's all of these sites
linking to each other.
Some of these like Black Hat companies
they'll just own a bunch of domains, and
deploy a bunch of WordPress sites.
And that they will look like
there's sort of content there.
But the only purpose they serve is to
try to build a little credibility and
then lend it out.
Or to try to be like
those 100 purple circles
that all point to a single entity
to try to boost its credibility.
Oftentimes, very often,
these these nests will be identified.
And they will be penalized, and
anything they'll link to what we penalize.
So you are responsible,
like when Black Hat efforts happen and
they refer to your site.
The assumption is,
that the business owner or
someone associated with
that made it happen.
So you need to take responsibility,
for cleaning up these bad links.
The first thing you should try to do,
is reach out to the owners of these sites.
And see if you can get
your link taken down.
If you get no response or
if this strategy doesn't play out,
you can use Google's Disavow Tool.
Which is where you basically formally say,
when you're building
the edges in this graph that
connects all of our sites like this.
This is not an intentional edge,
this was not something that I wanted,
something that I asked for.
And please remove it from consideration
when evaluating the weight of my site.
Otherwise when these
circles of self linking
Black Hat SEO sites,
when that gets taken down.
Your site's gonna get
dragged down with it.
I mentioned earlier about trading
links with vendors and stuff.
So when we talk about referring
to a vendor, one link is fine.
Setting up an arrangement where you all
like make 100 links to each other site.
That will be detected quickly.
And you will be penalized in
the same way as these self linking
Black Hat SEO sites will be penalized.
So the idea is you can't, lending a whole
bunch of credibility back and forth.
That's, that is not going to be effective.
If you do need to link to
someone's site very very often,
make sure that in your a tag
you add <rel= "nofollow''.
And this is an instruction to the web
crawlers that they should basically
disregard as you lending
credibility other site.
So site will still get crawled, right?
They'll still traverse it,
you'll alert if link ends up being broken.
But you're basically saying,
this is not endorsement, right?
This is just like don't read this,
when you're calculating the PageRank.
And dead links are easier than ever to
remove from your site, they show up in.
If you set Google Webmaster Tools up to
send you periodic reports of any kind.
This is the kind of alert that
you can't even turn off, right?
It'll tell you that here are broken links,
we discovered these.
And you should fix those
as soon as possible,
because letting those linger indicates
that your site is not maintained.
And up to date and you will,
other people will leapfrog you due to
the recency bias we discussed earlier.
So let's talk a little bit about ads.
So this is an area I have
very direct experience with,
having built several products for
Yahoo that are in the ad space.
Ads are a tool that pretty much
every business should use.
Yes,
>> Just before
we get to,
>> Yeah.
>> Far ahead.
Makita asks why Google says to use
Disavow only if everything else fails.
>> So Google says use Disavow
only if everything else fails.
Because they don't want their system
to be choked in all likelihood, right?
And and oftentimes when you end up with
these links, there are a lot of them.
And they're the result of some
consultant who owns this,
like spam ring of placing them there.
And they basically want you to
take it up with them first, and
to use them as a last resort.
It's not easy to submit
a disavow requests,
you have to basically affirm
that this was not me.
I do not own the site.
And they make it a last
resort kind of process there.
It's not a really easy automated tool.
It is sending a list for submission and
they'll get approved later on.
So their hope is you
don't have to do that.
>> Is that method of, [COUGH] Could
you use it to tank a competitor?
Is it used in bad sense?
Everywhere if the domain owner
is responsible, then you could
set up bad links to their, [CROSSTALK]
>> You totally could.
I mean, that's like a, [CROSSTALK]
>> I did figure it.
>> [LAUGH]
>> You think about this?
[CROSSTALK]
>> Conferences and
they would share stories about
all this Black Hat stuff.
Or they get sites taken down and
blacklisted, and
it would be like months
before they come up.
And running as they appeal to Google and,
>> Yep.
>> I mean it's a constant
battle out there.
>> It is, and the same goes for
reviews by the way,
>> Right
>> Like all the time I mean,
you see app reviews that come out.
If you wanna see some interesting reviews,
go look at the the mobile app for
any cable news site.
And you've got big spikes at one star and
five star from.
So, there is bias and
there is sort of behavior,
that is sort of coming from competitors.
The thing you can do about that,
is to pay attention to it.
And to try to hide it
off as soon as you can.
There are firms that exist for
the purpose of repairing reputation.
I haven't worked with
any of them personally.
So I'm not going to name them or
say that it's a good idea
to hire one in particular.
But it's a thing, right?
It is the online equivalent of throwing
a brick through your competitors window.
>> Yeah.
>> So, also not a good idea, [LAUGH]
>> Just like security you
have to kind of understand
the attack trajectories.
And then try to figure out how you
can mitigate them if they do happen.
It's the same one.
>> Yeah.
>> And reviews and stuff like that.
>> The hope is that by the time
you're on your competitors radar,
you've built up enough of a reputation.
That hit is not gonna
take you completely out.
And this is why, this is a good
reason to start early, right?
So before you're even on the radar of
people you've already reached out,
their customers have heard about you.
Before their competitors
have heard about you.
>> One thing to add with that
is transparency as well.
I mean a lot of case studies were, if your
competitors are attacking your website and
writing false reviews.
Then to actually respond to that,
you have that feature even on Google Maps.
Where you can respond and
say, this was not accurate,
or we've tried to locate this customer.
But they never shopped and
they weren't on our record.
And I think a lot of the,
it's about that communication as well.
So that when others see it, they can
note you have responded correctly to it.
>> That's a great point.
Yeah, there's nothing that more
easily diffuses an angry customer.
Than that calm, helpful, and
polite response saying like,
here's our support number.
I'm waiting by the phone right now to.
Even if you think it's malicious,
that's a good thing you can,
>> Couldn't make the other way though I
mean, if you've got like a psychopath on,
>> [LAUGH]
>> Whose like they didn't serve me.
Again it's like, are you really
gonna bother responding to that?
>> I would.
>> Yeah?
>> I would, I think the thing.
So what you have to remember there
is you have to be objective driven.
And you have to,
it's not really about the the principle of
whether this person was correct or not.
It's about whether your
response to that person,
will take the sharp edge
off of the way that looks.
If a stranger came by and
saw it on the side,
>> That doesn't makes sense.
>> Right?
>> You're not responded to him you're
respond to this first whose
coming later to read.
>> It's about your business's reputation,
and that is a quantifiable thing.
And what you do should be
oriented towards that.
So go, scream into a pillow.
And then write the,
>> [LAUGH]
>> Write the response because just,
that's what it's all about.
A new customer comes by, they can either
see that with no response whatsoever.
And Gosh,
maybe responses to other feedback and
they feel,
they responded to the thing about.
I found a fly in my soup, but
not this one here, and like.
>> Sure.
>> It would look odd to their eyes.
>> Sure yes.
>> There is a way that they could,
a lens through which they could see
that they would make them not do
business with you.
So you just wanna diffuse that,
and that's the only objective.